# Software Requirements Specification
## For Magicoach

Version 0.1  
Prepared by Sasha Steffey, Evan Spiering
09/17/2025

Table of Contents
=================
* [Revision History](#revision-history)
* 1 [Introduction](#1-introduction)
  * 1.1 [Document Purpose](#11-document-purpose)
  * 1.2 [Product Scope](#12-product-scope)
  * 1.3 [Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations](#13-definitions-acronyms-and-abbreviations)
  * 1.4 [References](#14-references)
  * 1.5 [Document Overview](#15-document-overview)
* 2 [Product Overview](#2-product-overview)
  * 2.1 [Product Functions](#21-product-functions)
  * 2.2 [Product Constraints](#22-product-constraints)
  * 2.3 [User Characteristics](#23-user-characteristics)
  * 2.4 [Assumptions and Dependencies](#24-assumptions-and-dependencies)
* 3 [Requirements](#3-requirements)
  * 3.1 [Functional Requirements](#31-functional-requirements)
    * 3.1.1 [User Interfaces](#311-user-interfaces)
    * 3.1.2 [Hardware Interfaces](#312-hardware-interfaces)
    * 3.1.3 [Software Interfaces](#313-software-interfaces)
  * 3.2 [Non-Functional Requirements](#32-non-functional-requirements)
    * 3.2.1 [Performance](#321-performance)
    * 3.2.2 [Security](#322-security)
    * 3.2.3 [Reliability](#323-reliability)
    * 3.2.4 [Availability](#324-availability)
    * 3.2.5 [Compliance](#325-compliance)
    * 3.2.6 [Cost](#326-cost)
    * 3.2.7 [Deadline](#327-deadline)

## Revision History
| Name | Date    | Reason For Changes  | Version   |
| ---- | ------- | ------------------- | --------- |
|      |         |                     |           |
|      |         |                     |           |
|      |         |                     |           |

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Document Purpose
This document will describe the portions of the Magicoach project for organizational purposes. This document is intended for use by Magicoach team members to have a consistent schema for the design of the project.

### 1.2 Product Scope
This document specifies the initial build of Magicoach. This is the repository containing the server code, which will contain both client page generation code and server request handling code. This software is a way for Magic: The Gathering (MTG) players to find coaching when needed for tournaments etc. and for coaches to have a place to advertise their services. Currently, many MTG coaches are sole proprietors, and this would allow them to have a consistent platform & reach.

### 1.3 Definitions, Acronyms and Abbreviations                                                                                                         
| Term | Definition                   |
| ---- | ---------------------------- |
| MTG  | Magic: The Gathering         |

### 1.4 References
All HTML code generated by Magicoach will validate with [W3C's HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
Magicoach will compile with the current Java compiler (JDK 25 LTS) without warnings.

### 1.5 Document Overview
This document lays out the product specifications including functions, constraints, interfaces, and requirements. Refer to the table of contents to view a specific section.

## 2. Product Overview
This section should describe the general factors that affect the product and its requirements. This section does not state specific requirements. Instead, it provides a background for those requirements, which are defined in detail in Section 3, and makes them easier to understand.

### 2.1 Product Functions
For coach users: 
* Coaches will be able to view requests for coaching services
* Coaches will be able to advertise thier name, availability, price, and summary of services
* Coaches will be able to see their recent payment statistics
* Coaches will be able to post on a subscribable feed, both images and text
* Coaches will be able to read reviews about their services

For client users:
* Clients will be able to view available coaches
* Clients will be able to subscribe to coaches
* Clients will be able to see posts from coaches they have subscribed to
* Clients will be able to purchase services through the website
* Clients will be able to post and edit their own reviews of coaches
* Clients will only be able to review services they have ordered

### 2.2 Product Constraints
This product has a requirement to be built fully in Java. This may impact ease of development. Code will compile without errors, which constrains code but will be good for ease of coding later on. The software will be running on a virtual cloud server, so its performance will need to be well-optimized to handle connections while operating with limited CPU resources.
  
### 2.3 User Characteristics
* Coaches: Coach Users who are creating pages advertising their services for purchasing by customers. Very important.
* Paying Users: Client Users who regularly use coaches' paid services. Important.
* Non-paying users: Client Users who do not regularly use coaches' paid services. Not as important.

### 2.4 Assumptions and Dependencies
Our website will be closely tied to Scryfall which provides a magic the gathering API as well as allows users to upload decks through their website. Although decks will be able to be uploaded through our website and held on the users account, we will be using scryfall API and backend to support this import. Before initial development of the project there was small work done on figuring out how to implement the Scryfall API. This work was mostly just to test some things here and there and will not majorly impact the development process.

## 3. Requirements

### 3.1 Functional Requirements 
The site shall allow users to sign up and log in to their accounts.
The site shall allow coaches to sign up and log in through a seperate coach sign in.
The site shall be able to upload decks within five seconds of submitting the request.

The users shall be able to write reviews for coaches.
The users shall be able to filter their coach search in order to find a coach easier.

The users AND coaches shall be able to upload decks to their profile to store.

The coaches shall be able to setup schedules for availability.
The coaches shall be able to make posts for users who follow them to see.
The coaches shall be able to add tags in order for users to find them easier.
The coaches shall be able to add past achievements to their webpage to increase validity.

#### 3.1.1 User interfaces
Define the software components for which a user interface is needed. Describe the logical characteristics of each interface between the software product and the users. This may include sample screen images, any GUI standards or product family style guides that are to be followed, screen layout constraints, standard buttons and functions (e.g., help) that will appear on every screen, keyboard shortcuts, error message display standards, and so on. Details of the user interface design should be documented in a separate user interface specification.

(global)
- Each page will have a home icon in the top left corner which will redirect the user back to the home page regardless of where they are in the site. This icon will be the logo of our webpage.
- Home page which displays a banner of highly rated coaches along with a search field below followed by a vertical container holding the search results (more coaches)

(User required)
- Users will need a login page in order to log in and sign up into their account.
- Users will need a profile tab to change their preferences, profile picture, information etc.
- Users will need a tab in order to import their decks and view their other imported decks.
- Users will need a calendar or schedule tab in order to find and make appointments with coaches.

(User convenience)
- Users would use a dashboard which has only the most important parts of each page in order to see everything in one place like their most recent deck, last coaching session, upcoming coaching sessions, and recommended coaches.
- Users would use an advanced filtering menu to sort through their decks using color, card inclusion, average mana cost, etc.
- Users would use a discussion board to talk with other users about their decks and upcoming events.

(Coach required)

(coach convenience)

Could be further divided into Usability and Convenience requirements.
(You do your half of the users, I will fill in mine)

#### 3.1.2 Hardware interfaces
The software will handle requests and connections over HTTP through a standard TCP socket. Both HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.1 will be supported, with TLS (https). Communication with the database will use internal sockets, and the database will not be exposed to the open Internet.

#### 3.1.3 Software interfaces
Describe the connections between this product and other specific software components (name and version), including databases, operating systems, tools, libraries, and integrated commercial components. Identify the data items or messages coming into the system and going out and describe the purpose of each. Describe the services needed and the nature of communications. Refer to documents that describe detailed application programming interface protocols. Identify data that will be shared across software components. If the data sharing mechanism must be implemented in a specific way (for example, use of a global data area in a multitasking operating system), specify this as an implementation constraint.
(I will do this one)

### 3.2 Non Functional Requirements 

#### 3.2.1 Performance
Average request timings should not increase when handling 20 concurrent requests or less. 

#### 3.2.2 Security
Passwords will not be directly stored, instead using salted hashes. Users will be able to register authenticator apps. Password resets will be provided by email. Password resets will require authenticator app usage for users with authenticator apps registered. Authenticators will use the TOTP protocol, HMAC SHA-1 variant. 

#### 3.2.3 Reliability
500-type errors will be returned at an average of 0.5% of requests or lower, not including scheduled maintenance windows. This error rate will be tracked. 

#### 3.2.4 Availability 
Any maintenecne or planned downtimes will be mentioned with a banner on the home page at least a week before the down time is going to happen. Down time will be planned to take place in off hours in order to affect the least possible number of users. In the event of an unplanned down time there will be mention of it throughout other social media platforms to let the users know what is going on with the site.

#### 3.2.5 Compliance 
Specify the requirements derived from existing standards or regulations

#### 3.2.6 Cost
None

#### 3.2.7 Deadline
Deadlines follow the course assignment deadlines.